Hello and welcome back to the course on artificial intelligence.
Today we are finally talking about Kule learning.
All right so we've already got this equation the bellmen equation which we've added lots of components
to.
We've got the reward here which can be not just at the very end but it can be at any given step.
We've got the discount factor.
We've got the probability because now we're looking at mark of a decision processes.
And here we've got the possibility of ending up in a different states regardless of what action we take
or actually given the action we take.
They can be multiple states and we can up and up in and then we've got the value of the next states
because he kind of like a recursive function and so on.
But you probably still have one question.
The question is where in all of this is the letter Q Why is it all cold.
Q learning so where is the cue.
And that's the question that we're going to be answering today.
So far we've been dealing with values the value of being in a certain state and now we are going to
look at how Q fits into all that as well.
So here we've got two examples on the left is what we would be doing so far.
Our agent has been analyzing.
Ok I'm over here.
This is a mark of decision process so doesn't matter how we got here.
The rest of the environment doesn't care of the steps that it took me to get here from now on.
I have to make the optimal decision where to go.
Hear hear hear.
Based on the current state and all the future states that come from here but not from the past.
And so he can see that there's three options there's state one state to state three.
And based on his experience he has calculated the values in these states and now he's going to using
the bellmen equation.
So even though this is the classic Proceso he knows that he'll go here but there's a chance that he
go left right and so on.
So based on these values going to make a decision that's what we do so far and that is totally legitimate
approach here.
But now we're going to modify it a little bit.
We're going to take the same exact concept same exact problem but here instead of looking at the values
of each state that he can end up in we're going to look at the values or the value of each action.
So we we're not going to use the letter V any more because for the value of the state we're going to
use a Q and the quote you might have a question why the letter Q Well.
Q Some people speculate that.
Q Will I read this.
I think on Quora somebody mentioned that Q is because of quality but at the same time I couldn't find
any other references to that so it might not be because that might be just because that's the letter
that was used at the time and now it became super popular because it's all called key learning.
Because of that.
So no exact reason was hold.
Q But nevertheless at least it helps us distinguish between V and Q So Q here.
There were presents rather than the value of the state it represents lets go of quality.
It represents the quality of the action that represents.
OK so I've got four actions.
What are the different qualities of these action.
What is the value of the action or the quality of the action which action is more lucrative.
So I need a metric telling me all right how do I quantify this action and then I can compare them and
that is exactly what Q is.
And so here he's got four possible actions as always go up right left or down.
And based on the action theres going to be a formula which tells us the quantifiable value of that action
which we're calling the Q The Q value of that action.
So let's have a look at how we're going to derive this formula.
Q What how does it actually relate to these.
Because as you can imagine because actions lead to states there has to be some sort of link between
the two.
Right we've got we've already determined how to calculate this and we're pretty good at it.
We know how to use a Belman equation in very different environments with lots of different complications.
Well let's leverage that knowledge to understand how we can now calculate.
Q In order to make the same predictions because as you can imagine the environment doesn't change depending
depending on what approach we use the environment is going to be the same regardless.
So therefore this approach and this approach should always give the same result.
And therefore that's another reason why these two should be linked.
So let's have a look.
So here's our view approach where we just got to look at the value of any given state this state or
any other state.
And here we going to be just using the lead here because that's the current state.
And so therefore the terminology will be the same in both equations and here we're using q as a Q as
the of the state s and an action.
A because action is up but in which state did we perform that action we perform that action in the state.
Yes.
OK so now we're going to ride out the Belman equation for the first approach as you can see here we've
got the of assets the value of any given state as is the maximum of the reward that you get a maximum
bet based on the actions you have three in this case you actually have four actions.
So maximum or all the possible actions of this part which we've very discussed many times so this is
our reward that we get from performing that action in that state plus a discount in fact multiplied
by the expected value of the new state that we're going to be in an expected value because it is a stochastic
process we don't know exactly for sure that we're going to end up over here we might end up on the left
or the right sort of probability.
That's why these probabilities are in you.
All right so that's our value.
And now let's look at Q So Q is going to be defined.
We're going to use this to define Q So let's say the agent from this location from this date perform
the action up.
What is the q value going to be equal to.
Well first of all let's see what he will get in return for performing this action.
Up first thing that you'll get is a reward right that knows no doubt about it.
There's going to be some sort of or it might be zero but we know that the hole is the way the Forsman
learning process works is that sometimes for performing certain actions from a given state or so we're
going to add that in here and then we're going to add what we're going to add.
Well let's think about it.
What is the next thing that happens after he's going there.
Well next thing that happens is that now the agent is in a certain state he could end up here with a
80 percent probability or some probability.
But actually you can up here right here but wherever he ends up now there's we already have a quantified
metric for that state he's in and that is actually the v value of that state.
But because he can up in many different states in three of the possible different states we have to
look at the expected value of the state that he'll be in.
And so we're going to add that in we're going to add of course the discounted factor as we previously
had because that is somewhere in the future.
And then we're going to add the some of across all possible states across all possible states that he
could end up by taking this action.
Terms of probability.
So what we're saying here is that okay so by performing an action you're going to get a reward Plus
which is a quantified metric Plus you're going to get you end up in a stage we don't know which one
it could be here.
Could be here it could be here but here is the expected value of the state that you're going to end
up in.
And now we're going to multiply by discounting factor because that is one move away.
So that is our Q value for this for performance section and what you will notice here right away is
that.
Q The Q value is actually exactly identical to what's inside these brackets over here.
And why is that.
Well if you think about it here we're taking the maximum of the results will get the maximum across
all possible actions so we've got four actions and we're taking the maximum across all possible actions
of the result that we'll get by taking each of those actions and enqueue we're defining interesting
what will we get by taking a certain action.
So if you think about it it makes sense that the value of a state.
So for instance this state is the maximum of all of the possible values.
Right.
So here in the States by being in the state the agent has one key value to keep the 3Q value for q value
so yes positive for possible Q values while the value of this stay it makes sense that the value of
the state is the maximum of all of those four key values.
That is exactly what we can see here that's a good confirmation of this new formula that we drive.
If that wasn't the case if that if that didn't match up then we would have questions would be like.
So why why doesn't it match.
Why doesn't it match up if Q value is a quantified metric of performing an action and V depends on the
floor is like is the maximum of the possible results of the four actions that he can perform over that
makes sense.
And that confirms the formula that we've just arrived and now we're going to make it even more interesting.
We're going to get rid of the Wii entirely because you can see here you've got Wii is a recursive function.
So and then you got me and then B and then B and then B and so on.
So you can express this view through all of the following Vee's the most optimal these that will come
up here were expressing.
Q As a funk a recursive function of the or is a function of the next D and then you'd have to plug in
this V and that would get back to the beach so what are we going to do is we're actually going to take
this V and we're going to we're going to replace it with.
Q Right so let's have a look at that want to take this V of the next state and we're going to plug this
into that formula over here.
And as you can see now so this bar doesn't change this probably doesn't change.
But as we just discussed the of s is the maximum by all actions of q of S and a right over here.
So that's what we're going to replace in here.
So we're going to say a maximum of of course is the new action the action that we're going to take because
here we've got the view of as prime.
So here now we've got the maximal Crucell a prime so the actions that we're going to take from this
state or from wherever whichever other state we end up in but the action that we're going to take from
there and Maximo across all those and the maximum is of all the q values that will that are available
to us in that new state as prime comma a prime.
And that's action.
So that's the.
So there's going to be another four.
Q values there.
So now as you can see let's go through again.
So as from what we derive this word we just got through logic and intuition.
So there because that VNS are actually view of AS and curious and they are linked.
The of s is the maximum across all actions of Cuba S and you can see right here.
So this this part is identical to this part.
And then we're going to leverage that and we're going to replace this bit with VNS from here but not
this exact funnel we're going to take this internal part and replace it with Kill venison.
So we're going to plug that in here.
And this part is going to be que of s prime a prime maximum of cube by Crucell a Priam's of Q As Prime
a prime.
And now we have our formula.
So now we have a recursive formula for the q value so now the agent can think what's the value of the
session what's the quality of the session was a Q value of this action.
Well it depends on the reward I get in the immediate step after that.
Plus it depends on the discounted factor times the maximum of all the possible Q actions in that state.
But I don't know if I'm going to get their side need to also look at that state and that state and that's
why we have this expected value over here so we have some probably times a maximum that's only expected
value.
So a very similar formula as you can see.
But this time we're expressing things through the q values and that's why this whole algorithm is called
Kill learning because this is what is looked at this is what the agents actually use they don't look
at the states look at their possible actions and then based on the actions on the values of the actions
they will decide which action to take so they'll just look at the maximum value in this given state
it has four actions.
What is the best action to take so we can compare and sort of comparing the different states that can
end up end up in is going to compare the possible actions that it currently has then by finding the
optimal one is going to take that action and then it is going to repeat that process repeat that process
and so on.
So now you can see how all this comes together how the reward the discounting factor or the stochastic
market decision processes and the values and the q values all come together in order to us this one
super powerful Belman equation for q values which we can now apply and let our agents learn how to beat
the environment.
And so that is a intuitive explanation of what's going on.
I know we went through the formulas but it is necessary because this is like our formula that's we've
been going through this whole chapter and I think it's a good transition from the To.
Q And it illustrates how there are links between Yishun And if you'd like to get a bit more of a rigorous
approach mathematical approach and like you see the mathematics behind it and learn a bit more about
q values and how they work.
Then we've got some additional reading for you.
This paper is called mark of decision processes concepts and algorithms by martín von Autor low 2009.
So you cut the link here as always and here you can read in a bit more detail to understand all the
nitty gritty behind Q values and so on and now that we've discussed all of these things relating to
the Belman equation now we are ready to look at something more complex such as this paper in order if
if we want to get some additional information on this in order to kind of get a deeper understanding.
But even if you don't read the newspaper or radio you should have a good working knowledge of what learning
is all about and how agents come up with the actions that they need to take in a certain environment.
So I hope you enjoy today Statoil and I look forward to your next them.
Until then enjoy.
I.